# sunset unlimited

this script is not buddhism or meditation really but a polarized debate coming from an athiest & christian perspectivea for me helps understand our bias, conditioning, delusion etc. vs objective truth

it is no more motivating than a free will debate but it is an area that should be explored, and mainly, it motivates me to practice and learn philosophy from every angle


<iframe width="1248" height="702" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/xJq5tqJVX9c" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<div class="scrolling-script-container">
So what am I supposed<br> to do with you, professor?<br> Why are you supposed<br> to do anything?<br> Well, like I said, this<br> ain't none of my doing.<br> When I left out of here<br> going to work this morning<br> you wasn't no part of my plans,<br> but here you is.<br> Doesn't mean anything.<br> Everything that happened<br> doesn't mean something else.<br> What's it mean then?<br> Doesn't mean anything.<br> You run into people.<br> And maybe some of them are<br> in trouble or whatever,<br> but it doesn't mean you're<br> responsible for them.<br> Mm-hmm.<br> Anyway, people who are always<br> looking out for perfect strangers<br> are very often people who<br> won't look out for the ones<br> they're supposed to look<br> out for, in my opinion.<br> If you're just doing<br> what you're supposed to,<br> you don't get to be a hero.<br> And that would be me?<br> I don't know.<br> Would it?<br> I can see how there might<br> be some truth in that,<br> but in this particular case<br> I got to say I didn't know<br> what sort of person I was<br> supposed to be on the lookout for<br> or what I was supposed<br> to do when I found them.<br> In this particular case<br> but one thing to go by.<br> And that was?<br> That was that<br> they is standing there<br> and I have to look<br> at them and say,<br> "Now he don't look like my<br> brother, but there he is,<br> so maybe you'd better<br> look again."<br> And that's what you did?<br> Well, I got to say<br> you was kind of hard to ignore.<br> Your approach<br> was pretty direct.<br> I didn't approach you.<br> I didn't even see you.<br> What I don't understand is how you<br> come to get yourself in such a fix.<br> Yeah.<br> Are you all right?<br> Did you sleep last night?<br> No.<br> Well,<br> when did you decide<br> that today was the day?<br> Was there something<br> special about it?<br> No.<br> Well, today is my birthday, but I<br> certainly don't regard that as special.<br> Well, Happy birthday,<br> professor.<br> Thank you.<br> So you seen your<br> birthday was coming<br> and that seemed<br> like a good day?<br> Who knows?<br> Maybe birthdays are dangerous,<br> like Christmas...<br> Ornaments hanging from the<br> trees, reeds from the doors<br> and bodies from the<br> steampipes all over America.<br> That don't say much<br> for Christmas, do it?<br> Christmas is not<br> what it used to be.<br> Now I believe that to be a true statement.<br> I surely do.<br> I've got to go.<br> You always put your<br> coat on like that?<br> What's wrong with the way<br> I put my coat on?<br> I ain't said nothing<br> was wrong with it.<br> I'm just asking if that's<br> your regular method.<br> - I don't have a regular method. I just put it on.<br> - Mm-hmm.<br> It's what... Effeminate?<br> What?<br> I'm just studying<br> the ways of professors.<br> Well, I've got to go.<br> Let me get my coat.<br> - Get your coat?<br> - Yeah.<br> - Where are you going?<br> - Going with you.<br> What do you mean?<br> Going with me where?<br> Going with you wherever<br> it is you're going.<br> - No, you're not.<br> - Yeah, I am.<br> - I'm going home.<br> - All right.<br> All right?<br> You're not going home with me.<br> Sure I am.<br> Let me get my coat.<br> - You can't go home with me.<br> - Why?<br> - You can't.<br> - Oh, what,<br> you can go home with me but<br> I can't go home with you?<br> No. I mean,<br> no, that's not it.<br> I just need to go home.<br> - You live in an apartment?<br> - Yes.<br> - What, they don't let black folk in there?<br> - No.<br> I mean, yes, of course they do.<br> Look, no more jokes.<br> I've got to go. I'm very tired.<br> All right, long as you don't run into<br> no hassle about getting me in there.<br> - You're serious.<br> - Oh, I think you know I'm serious.<br> - You can't be serious.<br> - I'm serious as a heart attack.<br> - Why are you doing this?<br> - Me? I ain't got no choice.<br> - Of course you have a choice.<br> - No, I ain't.<br> Who appointed you<br> my guardian angel?<br> You know who appointed<br> me your guardian angel.<br> Now look, I ain't ask for<br> you to jump into my arms<br> - down at the subway this morning.<br> - I didn't jump into your arms.<br> - You didn't?<br> - No.<br> Well, how'd you get there then?<br> What?<br> Now we ain't going?<br> Do you really think<br> Jesus is in this room?<br> No.<br> I don't think<br> he's in this room.<br> I know he's in this room.<br> It's the way you<br> put it, professor.<br> It'd be like me asking you if<br> you think you got your coat on.<br> It's not the same thing.<br> It's a matter of agreement.<br> If you and I say<br> that I have my coat on<br> and Cecil says that I'm naked<br> and have green skin and a tail,<br> we might want to think about<br> where we should put Cecil<br> so he doesn't hurt himself.<br> Who's Cecil?<br> He's not anybody.<br> He's just a hypothetical.<br> There's not any Cecil.<br> He's just a character<br> I made up<br> to illustrate a point.<br> - Made up?<br> - Yes.<br> So his view of things<br> don't count?<br> No. That's why<br> I made him up.<br> I could have changed things around.<br> I could have made you the one<br> who didn't think<br> I was wearing a coat.<br> And was green and all<br> that other shit you said?<br> - Yes.<br> - But you didn't.<br> - No.<br> - You load it all off on Cecil.<br> Yes.<br> But Cecil can't defend himself<br> on account that he ain't in<br> agreement with everybody else,<br> so his word don't count,<br> aside from the fact<br> that you made him up and<br> he's green and everything.<br> He's not the one who's green. I am.<br> Where is this going?<br> I'm just trying to<br> find out about Cecil.<br> I don't think so.<br> Can you see Jesus?<br> No, I can't see him.<br> - But you talk to him.<br> - Don't miss a day.<br> - And he talks to you.<br> - I have heard him, yes.<br> Do you hear him,<br> like, out loud?<br> No no, not out loud.<br> I don't hear a voice.<br> I don't hear my own,<br> for that matter.<br> But I have heard him.<br> But why couldn't Jesus<br> just be in your head?<br> He is in my head.<br> Well, then I don't understand what<br> it is you're trying to tell me.<br> I know you don't,<br> honey. Look,<br> the first thing<br> you got to understand is<br> I ain't got an original<br> thought in my head.<br> If it ain't got the lingering<br> scent of divinity to it,<br> - I ain't interested in it.<br> - The lingering scent of divinity.<br> - Yeah, you like that?<br> - It's not bad.<br> Heard it on the radio...<br> a black preacher.<br> The point is, is I done<br> tried it the other way.<br> I don't mean<br> no chipping neither.<br> I mean blindfold, running through<br> the woods, bit in my teeth...<br> Lord, didn't I try it!<br> If you can find somebody gave<br> it a better shot than me,<br> I'd like to meet him,<br> I surely would.<br> And what you think that got me?<br> I don't know.<br> What did it get you?<br> Life in death<br> is what it got me.<br> Life in death.<br> Too dead to even know<br> enough to lay down.<br> I see.<br> I don't think so.<br> Let me ask you a question.<br> All right.<br> You ever read this book?<br> I've read parts of it.<br> I've read in it.<br> Have you ever read it?<br> Read the book of job.<br> Have you ever read it?<br> No.<br> - But you is read a lot of books?<br> - Yes.<br> - How many, you say?<br> - I have no idea.<br> Ballpark.<br> Two a week,<br> maybe 100 a year<br> for close to 40 years.<br> Two a week...<br> I'm just messing<br> with you, professor.<br> Tell you what...<br> Give me a number,<br> any number you like, and I'll<br> give you 40 times it back.<br> - 26.<br> - 1040.<br> - 118.<br> - 4720.<br> - 4720.<br> - Yep.<br> - The answer is the question.<br> - Say what?<br> - That's your new number.<br> - 4720?<br> - That's a big number, professor.<br> - Yes, it is.<br> - You know the answer?<br> - No, I don't.<br> Let me see that.<br> How do you do that?<br> Numbers are<br> the black man's friend...<br> Butter and eggs, crap table.<br> You quick with numbers, you can<br> work the mojo on your brother,<br> confiscate the contents<br> of his pocketbook.<br> You get a lot of time to practice<br> that shit in the jailhouse.<br> I see.<br> Let's get back to you and<br> all these books you read.<br> You say you done read<br> Probably, maybe more than that.<br> But not this book.<br> Uh, no, not the whole...<br> - Why is that?<br> - I don't know.<br> Well, what would you say is<br> the best book ever wrote?<br> I have no idea.<br> Well, take a shot.<br> There are a lot of good books.<br> Pick one.<br> - Maybe "War and Peace."<br> - All right.<br> Do you think that book's<br> as good as this one?<br> I don't know.<br> They're different kinds of books.<br> This "War and Peace" book...<br> It's a book somebody made up, right?<br> Well, yes.<br> So is that what makes it<br> different from this here book?<br> No, in my view<br> they're both made up.<br> Ain't neither one of them true?<br> Not in the historical<br> sense, no.<br> Hmm.<br> Well, what would be<br> a true book?<br> I suppose maybe a history book.<br> Gibbon's "Decline and Fall<br> of the Roman Empire" might be one.<br> At least the events<br> would be actual events.<br> They would be things<br> that had happened.<br> Hmm.<br> So you think that book is as<br> good a book as this book?<br> - The Bible?<br> - The Bible.<br> I don't know. Gibbon's is a cornerstone.<br> It's a major book.<br> - And a true book. Don't forget that.<br> - And a true book, yes.<br> But is it as good a book?<br> I don't know.<br> I don't know as you can<br> make a comparison.<br> We're talking about<br> apples and pears.<br> We ain't talking about no<br> apples and pears, professor.<br> We're talking about books.<br> Is that "Decline and Fall" book<br> as good a book<br> as this here book?<br> Answer the question.<br> I'm gonna have to say no.<br> Used to say right here<br> on the cover<br> 'fore it got wore down...<br> "The greatest book<br> ever written."<br> - Think that might be true?<br> - It might.<br> - You read good books.<br> - I try to, yes.<br> But you ain't read<br> the best book.<br> - Why is that?<br> - I've got to go.<br> You don't need to go, professor.<br> Just stay here and visit with me.<br> You' afraid I'll go back<br> to the train station.<br> You might, so just<br> stay here with me.<br> What if I promised I wouldn't?<br> You might anyway.<br> Don't you need to go to work?<br> I was on my way to work.<br> A funny thing happened to<br> you on the way to work.<br> Yes, it did.<br> Will they fire you?<br> No, they ain't gonna fire me.<br> - You could call in.<br> - Ain't got no phone.<br> Anyhow, they know<br> if I ain't there by no<br> I ain't coming.<br> I ain't a late sort of person.<br> - Why don't you have a phone?<br> - Don't need one.<br> Junkies would steal it anyway.<br> Get a cheap one.<br> Don't get too cheap<br> for a junkie.<br> Let's get back to you.<br> Let's stick with you<br> for a minute.<br> - Can I ask you something?<br> - Sure you can.<br> Where were you standing?<br> I never saw you.<br> You mean when you took<br> your amazing leap?<br> - Yes.<br> - I was on the platform.<br> - On the platform?<br> - Yeah.<br> Well, I didn't see you.<br> I was standing on the platform,<br> minding my own business.<br> Here you come haulin' ass.<br> I looked all around to make<br> sure there was no one there,<br> particularly no children.<br> There was nobody around.<br> No, just me.<br> Well, I don't know<br> where you could have been.<br> Fixing to get spooky<br> on me here, professor?<br> Maybe I was behind<br> a post or something.<br> There wasn't any post.<br> So what're you saying...<br> You're looking at some big black angel<br> got sent down here to snatch<br> your honky ass out of there<br> at the last possible minute and<br> save you from destruction?<br> No, I don't think that.<br> - Such a thing ain't possible?<br> - No, it isn't.<br> Well, you're the one<br> suggested it.<br> I never suggested<br> any such thing.<br> You're the one who put in<br> the stuff about angels.<br> I never said anything about angels.<br> I don't believe in angels.<br> Well, what is it<br> you believe in?<br> A lot of things.<br> All right.<br> - All right what?<br> - All right, what things?<br> - I believe in things.<br> - Give me a for instance.<br> Um, cultural things,<br> for instance,<br> books, music, art,<br> things like that.<br> All right.<br> Those are the things<br> that have value to me.<br> They're the foundations<br> of civilization.<br> Well, they used to<br> have value to me.<br> They don't have so much<br> value anymore, I guess.<br> What happened to them?<br> People stopped valuing them.<br> I stopped valuing them<br> to a certain extent.<br> I'm not sure<br> I can tell you why.<br> That world is largely gone now.<br> Soon it will be wholly gone.<br> I'm not sure I'm<br> following you, professor.<br> There's nothing to follow.<br> It's all right.<br> The things I loved<br> were very frail,<br> very fragile.<br> I didn't know that.<br> I thought they were indestructible.<br> They weren't.<br> And that's what sent you off<br> the edge of the platform?<br> It wasn't nothing personal?<br> Oh, it's personal.<br> That's what an education does.<br> It makes the world personal.<br> Well, them's some very<br> powerful words, professor.<br> And I can't say that I got<br> an answer to none of that.<br> And it might be that<br> there ain't no answer.<br> But still I got to ask.<br> What's the use of having<br> notions such as them<br> if they won't keep you<br> glued down to the platform<br> when the Sunset Limited is<br> coming through at 80mph?<br> - Good question.<br> - I thought so.<br> I don't have an answer<br> to any of that either.<br> Maybe it's not logical.<br> I don't know. I don't care.<br> I've been asked,<br> didn't I think it odd<br> that I should be around to<br> witness the death of everything?<br> I do think it's odd.<br> But that doesn't mean<br> it isn't so.<br> Somebody has to be here.<br> But you don't intend<br> to hang around for it?<br> No, I don't.<br> Let me see if I got<br> this straight.<br> You're saying that<br> all this culture stuff<br> is the only thing between<br> you and the Sunset Limited.<br> - It's a lot.<br> - But it busted out on you.<br> Yes.<br> You're a culture junkie.<br> Maybe you're right.<br> Maybe I have no beliefs.<br> I believe<br> in the Sunset Limited.<br> Damn, professor.<br> Damn indeed.<br> No beliefs?<br> The things I believed in<br> no longer exist.<br> It's foolish<br> to pretend they do.<br> Western civilization<br> finally went up in smoke<br> in the chimneys of Dachau,<br> and I was too infatuated<br> to see it.<br> I see it now.<br> Hoo!<br> You're a challenge,<br> professor, you know that?<br> Well, there's no reason for you<br> to become involved<br> in my problems.<br> I should go.<br> - Have you got any friends?<br> - No.<br> - Come on, professor, not one?<br> - Not really, no.<br> - Tell me about that one.<br> - What one?<br> - The "not really" one.<br> - I have a friend at the university...<br> Not a close friend.<br> We have lunch from time to time.<br> But that's about as good as it gets?<br> Yes.<br> What'd you do to him?<br> - What'd I do to him?<br> - Yeah.<br> I didn't do anything to him.<br> What makes you think<br> I did something to him?<br> I don't know.<br> Did you?<br> No.<br> What is it you think<br> I did to him?<br> I don't know.<br> I want you to tell me.<br> There's nothing to tell.<br> You didn't leave him<br> a note or nothing<br> - to tell him you've taken the train?<br> - No.<br> - Your best friend?<br> - He's not my best friend.<br> I thought we just got<br> done deciding he was.<br> You just got done<br> deciding he...<br> Did you ever tell him<br> you was thinking about this?<br> - No. Why should I?<br> - 'Cause he's your best friend.<br> He's... I told you,<br> we're not all that close.<br> - You're not all that close?<br> - No.<br> He's your best friend,<br> only you ain't all that close?<br> If you'd like.<br> Not the way you'd want to<br> bother him with a little thing<br> like suicide?<br> Look,<br> suppose I were<br> to give you my word<br> that I would just go home<br> and I wouldn't try<br> to kill myself en route.<br> Suppose I was<br> to give you my word<br> that I wouldn't listen<br> to none of your bullshit.<br> So what am I, a prisoner here?<br> You know better than that.<br> You was a prisoner<br> before you got here...<br> A death row prisoner.<br> What did your daddy do?<br> What?<br> I said what did<br> your daddy do...<br> What kind of work?<br> He was a lawyer.<br> - A lawyer?<br> - Yeah.<br> What kind of law did he do?<br> He was a government lawyer.<br> He didn't do criminal law or anything like that.<br> What would be a thing<br> like criminal law?<br> I don't know.<br> Divorce law maybe.<br> Mm-hmm.<br> Maybe you got a point.<br> What'd he die of?<br> Who said he was dead?<br> - Is he dead?<br> - Yes.<br> What did he die of?<br> Cancer.<br> Cancer. So he was<br> sick for a while?<br> Yes, he was.<br> - Did you go see him?<br> - No.<br> - How come?<br> - I didn't want to.<br> How come you didn't want to?<br> I don't know.<br> I just didn't.<br> Maybe I didn't want to<br> remember him that way.<br> Mm, bullshit.<br> Did he ask you to come?<br> No.<br> - But your mama did.<br> - She may have. I don't remember.<br> Come on, professor.<br> You know she asked you to come.<br> Okay, yes.<br> - What did you tell her?<br> - I said I would.<br> - But you didn't?<br> - No.<br> - How come?<br> - He died.<br> No no, that ain't it.<br> You had time to go see him,<br> but you didn't do it.<br> I suppose.<br> You waited till he was dead.<br> Okay,<br> so I didn't go see my father.<br> Your father is laying on his<br> deathbed dying of cancer.<br> Your mama's sitting there<br> with him, holding his hand.<br> He's in all kind of pain.<br> They ask you to come see him<br> one last time before he died.<br> And you tell them,<br> "No, I ain't coming."<br> Please tell me I got<br> some part of this wrong.<br> If that's the way<br> you want to put it.<br> - Well, how would you put it?<br> - I don't know.<br> Well, that's the way<br> it is then, ain't it?<br> - I suppose.<br> - No, ain't no suppose.<br> - Is it or ain't it?<br> - Yes.<br> Whoo!<br> Let me see if I can find<br> my train schedule,<br> see when that next<br> uptown express is due.<br> I'm not sure I see the humor.<br> I'm glad to hear you<br> say that, professor,<br> 'cause I ain't sure either.<br> I get more amazed<br> by the minute.<br> How come you can't<br> see yourself, honey?<br> You're clear as glass.<br> I can see the wheels in<br> there turning, the gears.<br> I can see light too...<br> good light,<br> true light.<br> Can't you see it?<br> No, I can't.<br> Well, bless you, brother.<br> Bless and keep you,<br> 'cause it's there.<br> When were you<br> in the penitentiary?<br> - A long time ago.<br> - What were you in for?<br> - Murder.<br> - Really?<br> Now who would claim<br> to be a murderer<br> that wasn't one?<br> You called it the jailhouse.<br> Yeah.<br> Do most black people<br> call the penitentiary<br> the jailhouse?<br> No, just us<br> old country niggers.<br> We make a point to call<br> things what they is.<br> I'd hate to think how many names there is<br> for the jailhouse.<br> I'd hate to have<br> to count them.<br> Do you have a lot<br> of jailhouse stories?<br> - Jailhouse stories?<br> - Yeah.<br> I don't know.<br> I used to tell<br> jailhouse stories,<br> but they kind of<br> lost their charm.<br> Why don't we talk<br> about something<br> that's a little more cheerful?<br> You ever been married?<br> Married?<br> - Yeah.<br> - Oh man.<br> What?<br> Oh...<br> Maybe we ought to take another<br> look at them jailhouse stories.<br> Oh my.<br> Hoo!<br> Do you have any children?<br> No, professor.<br> I ain't got nobody.<br> Everybody in my family's dead.<br> I had two boys, but they<br> died a long time ago.<br> Just about everybody I ever<br> knowed has died, for that matter.<br> You ought to think about that.<br> I might be a hazard<br> to your health.<br> Were you always<br> in a lot of trouble?<br> Yeah, I was.<br> I liked it.<br> I think I still do.<br> I done seven years hard time.<br> Could have done a lot more.<br> Hurt a lot of people.<br> I used to smack 'em around,<br> and they wouldn't get up no more.<br> - But you don't get in trouble now?<br> - No.<br> But you still like it?<br> Well, maybe I'm just<br> condemned to it,<br> bit in the ass by my own karma.<br> But I'm on the other side now.<br> You want to help folk<br> that's in trouble,<br> you pretty much got to go<br> where the trouble's at.<br> You ain't got a lot of choice.<br> How long have you<br> been here?<br> Oh, six...<br> going on seven years.<br> I don't understand<br> why you live here.<br> As opposed to where?<br> Anywhere.<br> Well, this pretty much<br> is anywhere.<br> I could live in another<br> building, I suppose,<br> but it's all right.<br> I got my bedroom over yonder<br> where I can get away,<br> got a sofa where<br> folk can crash...<br> junkies and crackheads mostly.<br> Of course they're gonna walk<br> off with all your portables,<br> so you can't own nothing.<br> But that's good.<br> You hang out<br> with the right crowd,<br> you pretty much get over<br> all your worldly cravings.<br> They took the refrigerator<br> one time,<br> but somebody caught them<br> out there on the stairs,<br> made them bring it back up.<br> Now I got that big<br> sucker over yonder...<br> traded up.<br> Only thing I miss<br> is the music.<br> I aim to get me<br> a steel door.<br> Then I can have me<br> some music here.<br> But you got to buy the door and<br> the frame at the same time.<br> I'm working on that.<br> I don't care nothing<br> about television,<br> but I sure do miss the music.<br> You don't think<br> this is a terrible place?<br> A terrible place?<br> Yes.<br> What are you talking about?<br> This place. It's a horrible place<br> full of horrible people.<br> Oh my.<br> You must know that these<br> people are not worth saving<br> even if they could be saved,<br> which they can't. You must know that.<br> Well, I like a challenge.<br> I started a ministry<br> 'fore I got out of prison.<br> Now that was a challenge.<br> There was a lot of<br> brothers who showed up.<br> They ain't care<br> nothing about it.<br> They ain't really care nothing<br> about the word of God.<br> They just wanted it<br> on the resume.<br> - Resume?<br> - Resume.<br> You got some brothers in there<br> had done some real bad shit.<br> And they weren't sorry about a<br> damn thing except getting caught.<br> But the funny thing was a lot<br> of them did believe in God,<br> even more so than a lot of these<br> people out here on the outside.<br> I know I did.<br> You ought to think<br> about that, professor.<br> - I think I'd better go.<br> - Oh, hey hey.<br> You ain't got to go, professor.<br> Let me ask you something.<br> You ever had one of them days<br> where everything was just<br> weird all the way around<br> when things just kind of<br> fell into place?<br> I'm not sure what you mean.<br> Just one of them days<br> kind of magic,<br> one of them days where<br> everything turned out right.<br> I don't know.<br> Maybe.Why?<br> Well, I'm just wondering<br> if it ain't been<br> maybe sort of long<br> dry spell for you<br> till you took up<br> with the notion<br> that that's the way<br> the world is.<br> - The way the world is?<br> - Yeah.<br> - And how is that?<br> - You know, long and dry.<br> But the point is<br> that even if you feel that way,<br> what you got to understand<br> is that the sun don't shine up<br> the same dog's ass every day.<br> You understand what I'm saying?<br> If what you're saying is that I'm simply<br> having a bad day, that's ridiculous.<br> I ain't saying you're having<br> a bad day, professor.<br> I'm saying you're<br> having a bad life.<br> You think I should<br> change my life?<br> - What, you shitting me?<br> - I have to go.<br> Look, just hang with me<br> a little while longer.<br> What about my jailhouse story?<br> You don't need<br> no jailhouse story.<br> Why not?<br> Well, you're suspicious<br> about everything already.<br> You think I'm trying to<br> put you in the trick bag.<br> And you're not?<br> Well yeah, but I don't<br> want you to know it.<br> Well, in any case,<br> I have to go.<br> You ain't ready to go back<br> out there on them streets.<br> - I have to. - I know you ain't got<br> nothing you got to do.<br> - How do you know that?<br> - 'Cause you ain't even supposed to be here.<br> I see your point.<br> What if I tell you<br> a jailhouse story?<br> Will you stay then?<br> All right.<br> I'll stay a while.<br> All right!<br> The man says all right.<br> Okay, here go<br> my jailhouse story.<br> Is it a true story?<br> Oh yeah, it's a true story.<br> I don't know no other kind.<br> One day I'm in the chow line<br> and I'm getting my chow<br> when the nigger<br> in the line behind me<br> gets into it with the server,<br> says the beans is cold.<br> So he throws the ladle<br> down in the beans.<br> Well, when he done that<br> there was beans<br> splashed up on me.<br> Well, I didn't want to get<br> into it over no beans,<br> but it did kinda<br> piss me off some.<br> I'd just put on<br> a clean uniform...<br> you know, khakis,<br> shirt and trousers.<br> And you only get two a week.<br> So I said something to him<br> like "Hey man, watch it"<br> or something like that.<br> But I went on.<br> I'm telling myself,<br> "Just let it go.<br> Just let it go."<br> But then the nigger<br> said something.<br> So I turned back.<br> And when I done that,<br> he stuck a knife in me.<br> I ain't even see it coming.<br> Blood's just flying everywhere.<br> This wasn't no<br> jailhouse shiv neither.<br> This was one of them<br> Italian switchblades...<br> One of them<br> black-and-silver jobs.<br> Well, I ain't do a thing<br> but duck<br> and step back under the rail.<br> And I reached out and I got hold of<br> this table leg.<br> And it come off in my hand<br> just as easy.<br> It had this long screw<br> sticking out the end of it.<br> And I went to wailing<br> on that nigger's head!<br> And I ain't quit!<br> I ain't quit<br> till you couldn't tell<br> it was a head no more!<br> That screw was stick<br> in his head<br> and I'd have to put my foot<br> on him to pull it out.<br> - What'd he say?<br> - What'd he say?<br> I mean in the line.<br> What did he say?<br> - I ain't gonna repeat it.<br> - That doesn't seem fair.<br> - Don't seem fair?<br> - No.<br> Here I am telling you<br> a bona fide blood-and-guts<br> tale from the big house,<br> the genuine article,<br> and I can't get you<br> to fill in the blanks<br> about what the nigger said?<br> - Do you have to use that word?<br> - Use that word?<br> - Yes. - We ain't making much<br> progress here, is we?<br> It just seems unnecessary.<br> You don't want<br> to hear "nigger,"<br> but you about to bail out on<br> me 'cause I won't tell you<br> some ugly shit the nigger said?<br> Is you sure about this?<br> I just don't see why you<br> have to use that word.<br> It's my story, ain't it?<br> Anyway, I don't remember there being<br> no African-Americans<br> or people of color in there.<br> To my recollection there was<br> only a bunch of niggers!<br> Go ahead.<br> Now at some point<br> I musta pulled<br> the knife out and...<br> and dropped on the floor<br> somewhere.<br> Meanwhile, I'm still wailing<br> on this nigger's head,<br> but his friend has got<br> ahold of me from behind.<br> But I got one hand on the rail<br> so I ain't going nowhere.<br> But what I don't know<br> is that this dude<br> musta picked up the knife<br> and he's trying to gut me.<br> I felt the blood.<br> I turned around<br> and I bust him in the head.<br> And he went skittering off<br> across the floor.<br> And by now somebody<br> done pushed the button<br> and the alarm is going.<br> Everybody's down on the floor<br> and we in lockdown.<br> The guard up on the rail...<br> He got his shotgun<br> pointed at me<br> and he's hollering,<br> "You! Get on the floor<br> and drop the weapon!"<br> He's about to shoot me<br> when the lieutenant tells him,<br> "Hold your fire!<br> You! Throw down that club!"<br> I looked around,<br> and I was the only one<br> standing.<br> I see the nigger's feet sticking<br> out from under the counter<br> where he'd done crawled.<br> So I throwed the thing down.<br> I don't remember<br> much after that.<br> They...<br> they told me<br> I had lost almost<br> half my blood.<br> I remember<br> slipping around in it,<br> but I thought it was<br> the other dude's.<br> Did the man die?<br> No, he didn't.<br> Everybody lived.<br> They thought he was dead,<br> but he wasn't.<br> He wasn't right after that,<br> so I ain't really had<br> no more trouble out of him.<br> He walked around with his<br> head kinda to the side,<br> lost one eye,<br> arm's hanging down,<br> didn't talk right.<br> They shipped him off<br> to another facility.<br> But that's not the whole story.<br> - No, it ain't.<br> - So what happened?<br> I woke up in the infirmary.<br> They had already done<br> operated on me.<br> My spleen was cut open,<br> liver, I don't know what all.<br> I come pretty close to dying.<br> I had 280 stitches<br> holding me together<br> and, whoo, I was hurting.<br> I didn't know you could<br> hurt that much.<br> And still they had me<br> in leg irons<br> and had me handcuffed to the<br> bed, if you can believe that.<br> Now as I lay there,<br> I heard this voice<br> just as clear,<br> couldn't have been no clearer.<br> And the voice said,<br> "If it was not<br> r the grace of God<br> you would not be here."<br> Man, I tried to sit up<br> and look around,<br> but I couldn't.<br> Wasn't no need to nohow,<br> 'cause wasn't nobody there.<br> I mean, there was somebody<br> there all right,<br> but wasn't no need for me looking<br> around to see if I could see him.<br> You don't think this is<br> a strange kind of story?<br> Yeah, I do think<br> it's a strange kind of story.<br> No, what I mean is that you<br> didn't feel sorry for this man.<br> Oh, you getting ahead<br> of the story.<br> The story of how a fellow inmate<br> became a crippled one-eyed halfwit<br> so that you could find God.<br> - Whoa-ho.<br> - Well, isn't it?<br> - I don't know.<br> - You hadn't thought of it that way?<br> Oh yeah, hell,<br> I thought of it that way.<br> Well, isn't that<br> the true story?<br> Look, professor, I don't want to<br> get on the wrong side of you.<br> And you seem to have<br> a powerful wish<br> for that to be the story,<br> so I got to say that is<br> one way of looking at it.<br> I gotta concede that.<br> Gotta keep you interested.<br> - String me along.<br> - You all right with that?<br> And then put me in the...<br> What is it? The trick bag?<br> - Yeah.<br> - Right.<br> You got to remember<br> - this is a jailhouse story.<br> - All right.<br> - Which you specifically asked for.<br> - All right.<br> The point is, professor,<br> I ain't got the first<br> notion in the world<br> about what makes God tick.<br> I don't know why he spoke to me.<br> - I know I wouldn't have.<br> - But you listened.<br> - What choice would you have?<br> - I don't know.<br> Not listen.<br> You think he goes around<br> talking to people<br> he knows ain't gonna listen<br> to him in the first place?<br> You think he got<br> that kind of free time?<br> Why is it you people<br> cat just accept it<br> that some people don't even<br> want to believe in God?<br> - I can accept that.<br> - You can?<br> Sure I can.<br> Meaning I believe that to be a fact.<br> I mean I'm looking<br> at it every day,<br> so I'd better accept it.<br> Then why can't you<br> leave us alone?<br> Oh, to be hanging from<br> steampipes and all that?<br> If that's what<br> we want to do, yes.<br> Because he said not to.<br> It's in here.<br> - Don't you want to be happy?<br> - Happy?<br> What, you got something<br> against being happy?<br> - God help us.<br> - What, I done opened up a can of worms?<br> What you got against<br> being happy?<br> It's contrary<br> to the human condition.<br> Contrary to your condition.<br> I gotta agree with that.<br> Happy?<br> What, like there ain't<br> no such thing?<br> Not for nobody?<br> No.<br> How did we get ourselves<br> in such a fix as this?<br> We were born<br> in such a fix as this.<br> Suffering and human destiny<br> are the same thing.<br> Each is a description<br> of the other.<br> We ain't talking<br> about no suffering.<br> We're talking<br> about being happy.<br> - You can't be happy if you're in pain.<br> - Why not?<br> You're not making any sense.<br> Oh, them is some hard words<br> from the professor.<br> The preacher has fell back.<br> He's clutching his heart.<br> His eyes is rolled back<br> in his head.<br> Wait a minute.<br> Wait a minute, folks.<br> The preacher's blinking.<br> He's coming back.<br> He's coming back.<br> The point is, professor,<br> that if you ain't got<br> no pain in your life,<br> how would you even know<br> when you was happy?<br> As compared to what?<br> You don't have anything to<br> drink around here, do you?<br> No, I don't.<br> Is you a drinking man?<br> - Are we about to get a temperance lecture?<br> - Not from me.<br> It's been a difficult day.<br> I take it you don't drink.<br> No, I don't.<br> I've done my share of it<br> in my time though.<br> Are you in A.A.?<br> No no, no A.A.<br> I just quit.<br> I've had a lot of friends<br> who was drinkers though...<br> Most of them for that matter.<br> Most of them dead too.<br> From drinking?<br> Well, from drinking or reasons<br> not too far from it.<br> I had a friend get run down not<br> too long ago by a taxicab.<br> Now where you think<br> he was headed drunk?<br> I don't know.<br> Where was he going?<br> To get more whisky.<br> He had plenty at the house,<br> but drunks are always scared<br> they're gonna run out.<br> Was he killed?<br> I hope so.<br> We buried him.<br> I suppose there's<br> a moral to this story.<br> Just a story about what you<br> get and what you want.<br> Pain... happiness.<br> Let me tell you another one.<br> One Sunday<br> we's all sitting around the house<br> drinking... a Sunday morning.<br> Well, here come this friend of ours<br> with this girl Evelyn.<br> Now Evelyn was drunk<br> when she got there,<br> but we told her,<br> "Go on and get yourself<br> a drink."<br> Well, directly, my buddy Reg...<br> He goes in the kitchen<br> to fix hisself a drink.<br> Only now the bottle is gone.<br> Now Reg has been around a few<br> drinking people in his time<br> and commences to hunt<br> for the bottle.<br> He looks in the cabinet,<br> looks behind everything,<br> but he can't find it.<br> Of course he knows<br> what's happened to it.<br> So he comes back in the<br> living room, sits down,<br> looks at Evelyn sitting there<br> on the sofa drunk as a goat.<br> And he says, "Evelyn,<br> where you put the whisky?"<br> Evelyn says...<br> He says, "Evelyn,<br> where did you hide<br> the whisky?"<br> And she...<br> Well, Reg is sitting there and this is<br> beginning to piss him off a little,<br> so he gets in her face<br> and he says,<br> And she says,<br> "I hid it in the toilet."<br> That's pretty funny.<br> Oh, I thought you'd like that.<br> And is that where<br> the whisky was?<br> Oh, yeah yeah.<br> That's a favorite place<br> for drunks to hide a bottle.<br> But the point is<br> that the drunk's concern<br> ain't that he's going to die from drinking...<br> which he is...<br> but that he's going to<br> run out of whisky<br> before he get<br> a chance to do it.<br> Is you hungry?<br> 'Cause I can come back to this.<br> I ain't gonna lose my place.<br> No, I'm all right.<br> Go ahead.<br> If you was to hand<br> a drunk a drink<br> and tell him he don't want it,<br> what do you think he'd say?<br> I think I know<br> what he would say.<br> Sure you do.<br> And you would be right.<br> - About him not really wanting it?<br> - Yes.<br> Because what he wants he can't<br> get, or thinks he can't get,<br> so what he really don't want<br> he can't get enough of.<br> So what is it he really wants?<br> Well, you know<br> what he really wants.<br> - No, I don't.<br> - Yes, you do.<br> No, I don't.<br> You don't know what he wants?<br> No, I do not.<br> He wants what everybody wants.<br> And that is?<br> He wants to be loved by God.<br> I don't want<br> to be loved by God.<br> See, I love that.<br> I love the way you cut right to it.<br> See, he don't either,<br> according to him.<br> All he wants<br> is a drink of whisky.<br> Now you're a smart man,<br> professor.<br> Now tell me which one makes<br> sense and which one don't.<br> I don't want a drink<br> of whisky either.<br> I thought you just got<br> done asking for one.<br> I mean as a general<br> proposition.<br> We ain't talking about no general proposition.<br> We're talking about a drink.<br> - I don't have a drinking problem.<br> - You got some kind of problem.<br> Well, whatever kind of problem<br> I have, it is not something<br> that I imagine can be addressed<br> with a drink of liquor.<br> Mm! I love the way<br> you put that.<br> Well, what can it be<br> addressed with?<br> I think you know what<br> it can be addressed with.<br> The Sunset Limited.<br> Yes.<br> That's what you really want.<br> That is what I want, yes.<br> Well, that's a mighty big<br> drink of whisky, professor.<br> - That I don't really want?<br> - That you don't really want, yes.<br> - Well, I think I do want it.<br> - Of course you do, honey.<br> If you didn't, we<br> wouldn't be sitting here.<br> I disagree with you.<br> All right, but that's<br> the hand I'm playing.<br> I don't think you understand<br> that people such as myself<br> look upon this yearning for God as<br> something lacking in these people.<br> Sure I do.<br> I couldn't agree more.<br> You agree with that?<br> Yes.<br> What's lacking is God.<br> I am sorry, but to me this whole<br> idea of God is just a load of crap.<br> Oh lord have mercy!<br> Jesus help us.<br> The professor's done gone<br> and blasphemed all over us.<br> We ain't never<br> gonna be saved now.<br> You don't find that<br> an evil thing to say?<br> No, professor, I don't.<br> But you does.<br> No, I don't.<br> It's simply a fact.<br> No, it ain't simply no fact.<br> Now that's the biggest<br> fact about you.<br> In fact, it might just<br> be the only fact.<br> But you don't seem<br> to think it's so bad.<br> No, 'cause I know it<br> to be curable.<br> Now if you're asking me<br> what the man up there<br> thinks about it,<br> well, I imagine<br> he done heard it so much<br> that it don't bother him<br> all that much.<br> I mean,<br> what if somebody told you<br> you didn't exist<br> and you was sitting right there<br> listening to him say it?<br> That wouldn't piss you off,<br> would it?<br> No, you'd just<br> feel sorry for them.<br> Right, and you might even try<br> to get some help for them.<br> Now in my case<br> he had to holler out loud,<br> me laying on a slab<br> in two pieces,<br> sewed back together<br> where some nigger done tried<br> to core me like an apple.<br> But God being God,<br> he can speak to your heart<br> at any time.<br> And furthermore,<br> if he spoke to me...<br> which he did...<br> he can speak to anybody.<br> "Wonder what this<br> crazy nigger's<br> fixing to do now.<br> He's liable to put<br> the mojo on me.<br> He'll be speaking in tongues<br> here directly.<br> I need to get my ass<br> out of here.<br> He's liable to steal<br> my pocketbook.<br> I need to get my ass<br> on down to that depot<br> 'fore something bad<br> happens to me."<br> Hey!<br> What are we gonna do<br> with you, professor?<br> Look, I know I owe you<br> a great deal,<br> at least in the eyes<br> of the world.<br> Couldn't I just give you something<br> and we could call it square?<br> I'll give you some money,<br> something like that.<br> I can give you $1000.<br> Well, that's not<br> very much, I guess.<br> I can give you $3000, say.<br> You ain't got no notion of the<br> trouble you're in, do you?<br> - I don't know what you mean.<br> - I know you don't.<br> I'd just like to<br> settle this in some way.<br> Ain't me you got<br> to settle with.<br> Do you really think<br> I was sent to you by God?<br> No, it's worse than that.<br> How do you mean?<br> Belief ain't like unbelief.<br> If you're a believer<br> and you finally got to come<br> to the well of belief itself,<br> then you ain't got to look no further.<br> There ain't no further.<br> But the unbeliever's<br> got a problem.<br> He's set out<br> to unravel the world.<br> For everything he can<br> point to that ain't true,<br> he leaves two things<br> laying there.<br> Do you really believe everything<br> that's in there... the Bible?<br> The literal truth?<br> Yes.<br> Probably not,<br> but then you already know<br> I'm an outlaw.<br> What is it you would<br> disagree with?<br> Probably the notion<br> of original sin...<br> you know, when Eve<br> ate the apple,<br> turned everybody bad.<br> I don't see people that way.<br> I think for the most part<br> people was good to begin with.<br> I think evil is something<br> you bring on your own self,<br> mostly from wanting things<br> you ain't supposed to have.<br> But I ain't gonna stand here and<br> tell you about me being a heretic<br> when I'm trying to get you<br> to quit being one.<br> Are you a heretic?<br> Is you trying to put me<br> in the trick bag, professor?<br> No, I'm not.<br> Are you?<br> No more than<br> what a man ought to be,<br> even a man<br> with a powerful belief.<br> I ain't a doubter,<br> but I am a questioner.<br> What's the difference?<br> A questioner wants the truth.<br> A doubter wants to be told<br> there ain't no such thing.<br> You don't think you have to believe<br> everything that's in there<br> - in order to be saved?<br> - No, not at all.<br> I don't even think<br> you have to read it.<br> I ain't even for sure<br> you even got to know<br> there is such a book.<br> I think whatever truth is wrote<br> in the pages of this book<br> is wrote in the human heart too, and<br> was wrote there a long time ago,<br> and will be wrote there<br> a long time hence,<br> even if every copy of this book is burned...<br> every copy of it.<br> And what Jesus said...<br> I don't think he made up a word of it.<br> He just told it.<br> This book is a guide<br> for the ignorant<br> and the sick at heart.<br> A whole man<br> wouldn't need it at all.<br> And if you was<br> to read this book,<br> you're gonna find there's more<br> talk in here about the wrong way<br> than there is the right way.<br> Why is that?<br> I don't know.<br> Why is it?<br> Why don't you tell me?<br> I'll have to think about that.<br> - Okay.<br> - Okay what?<br> Okay, go on and think about it.<br> It might take me a little longer<br> than you to think about something.<br> - That's all right.<br> - That's all right?<br> Yeah. I mean, I can take that<br> statement in one or two ways.<br> I'm going to take it the good<br> way 'cause that's my nature.<br> That way I get to live<br> in my world and not yours.<br> What makes you think<br> mine is so bad?<br> I don't think it's so bad.<br> I just know it's brief.<br> All right.<br> I think the answer<br> to your question is<br> that the dialectic<br> of the homily<br> always presupposes<br> a ground of evil.<br> - Man.<br> - How's that?<br> That's strong as a mare's<br> breath, professor.<br> Whoo! Wouldn't I love<br> to lay some shit like that<br> on the brothers. Whoa.<br> It's just the two of us sitting<br> here in private, talking.<br> What'd you just say?<br> Your question...<br> the Bible is full<br> of cautionary tales...<br> all of literature,<br> for that matter...<br> telling us to be careful.<br> Careful of what?<br> Taking the wrong turn,<br> the wrong path.<br> How many wrong paths are there?<br> Their number is legion.<br> How many right paths?<br> Just one.<br> Hence the imbalance<br> that you spoke of.<br> Man.<br> You know, you could go<br> on TV, professor,<br> a good-looking man like yourself.<br> You know that?<br> - Stop.<br> - I'm serious.<br> I wasn't even sure you was a professor<br> till you laid that shit on me.<br> Now I think you're having<br> fun at my expense.<br> - No, I ain't.<br> - Well, I think you are.<br> Honey, I swear I ain't.<br> I couldn't say a thing like<br> you just got done saying.<br> I admire that.<br> And why do you keep<br> calling me honey?<br> That's just the old South talking.<br> It don't mean nothing.<br> I'll try and stop<br> if it bothers you.<br> I'm just not sure<br> what it means.<br> It means you're among friends.<br> It means quit worrying<br> about everything.<br> That might be easier said than done.<br> Yeah, you're right.<br> It might.<br> But we're just talking...<br> talking.<br> - Tell me something.<br> - Sure.<br> Why are you here?<br> What do you get out of this?<br> You seem like a smart man.<br> Me?<br> I'm just a dumb country nigger<br> from Louisiana.<br> I done told you, I ain't never had<br> the first thought in my head.<br> If it ain't in here,<br> I don't know it.<br> Sometimes I think<br> you're having fun with me.<br> You are an asshole!<br> A-s-s-hole! Asshole!<br> Come on now.<br> Now what the fuck are you doing<br> in my motherfucking bed?<br> I don't see<br> how you can live here.<br> I don't know how<br> you can feel safe.<br> Well, you got a point, professor,<br> about being safe anyway.<br> You ever stopped any of these people<br> from taking drugs?<br> Not that I know of.<br> Then what is the point?<br> I don't get it.<br> I mean, it's hopeless.<br> This places is a moral leper colony.<br> Damn.<br> Moral leper colony.<br> Where's my pencil at?<br> I ain't never gonna want you to leave.<br> Put this in my book.<br> "In the moral<br> leper colony."<br> I like the sound of that.<br> I still don't see<br> how you can live here.<br> Why not go someplace where you<br> can do the world some good?<br> As opposed to someplace<br> where good is needed?<br> Even God gives up<br> at some point.<br> There's no ministry in<br> hell that I ever heard of.<br> No, there ain't.<br> And that's well put.<br> Ministry is for the living.<br> That's why you're responsible<br> for your brother.<br> Once he quit breathing<br> you can't help him no more.<br> He's in the hands<br> of other parties.<br> So you got to<br> look after him now.<br> You might even want to<br> monitor his train schedule.<br> You think you are<br> your brother's keeper?<br> I don't believe "think"<br> quite covers it.<br> And Jesus is part<br> of this enterprise?<br> That all right with you?<br> And he's interested in<br> coming here to this cesspool<br> and salvaging what everybody<br> knows is unsalvageable.<br> Why would he do that?<br> You said he didn't have a lot of free time.<br> Why would he<br> come here?<br> What would the difference<br> be to him<br> between a building that was<br> spiritually and morally vacant<br> and one that was<br> just plain empty?<br> Mm, professor, you're a theologian<br> here and I ain't even know it.<br> You're being facetious.<br> I don't know that word.<br> But don't be afraid<br> to talk down to me.<br> You ain't gonna<br> hurt my feelings.<br> It means...<br> I guess it means<br> you're not being sincere,<br> that you're being...<br> You don't mean what you're saying<br> in a cynical sort of way.<br> Mm, you don't think<br> I mean what I say?<br> I think you say things<br> for effect sometimes.<br> Mm, well, let me<br> say this for effect.<br> Go ahead.<br> Suppose I was to tell you<br> that if you could bring<br> yourself to unlatch your hands<br> from around your<br> brother's throat,<br> you could have<br> life everlasting?<br> There's no such thing.<br> Everybody dies.<br> That ain't what he said.<br> He said you could have<br> life everlasting,<br> have it now, today,<br> hold it in your hands,<br> see it.<br> It gives off a light,<br> got a little weight to it...<br> not much.<br> Warm to the touch<br> just a little...<br> Life, and it's forever.<br> And you can have it<br> now, today.<br> But you don't want it.<br> You don't want it<br> 'cause to get it<br> you got to let your<br> brother off the hook.<br> You got to actually take him<br> in your arms and hold him<br> and don't matter what color<br> he is or what he smells like<br> or even if he don't<br> want to be held.<br> And you won't do it<br> 'cause you don't think<br> he deserves it.<br> And about that<br> there ain't no argument.<br> He don't.<br> You won't do it<br> 'cause it ain't just.<br> Ain't that so?<br> Ain't it?<br> I don't think in those terms.<br> Just answer<br> the question, professor.<br> I don't believe<br> in that sort of thing.<br> I know you don't.<br> Just answer the question.<br> There may be some truth<br> in what you say.<br> That's all I'm going to get?<br> Yes.<br> All right, all right.<br> I'll take it.<br> Some is a lot.<br> We down to breadcrumbs here.<br> I really have to go home.<br> No no no, just stay,<br> just a little.<br> We can talk about<br> something else.<br> You like baseball?<br> Tell you what...<br> Why don't I fix us something to eat?<br> - I'm not hungry.<br> - How about some coffee?<br> All right.<br> But then I really have to go.<br> All right.<br> The man says all right.<br> You know, ordinarily<br> I wouldn't be this rude...<br> A man come in my house,<br> sit at my table<br> and me not offering nothing.<br> But with you<br> I got to strategize,<br> play the cards right,<br> keep you from slipping<br> off into the night.<br> It's not night.<br> Depends on what kind of<br> night you're talking about.<br> Let me ask you a kind of<br> personal question.<br> This will be good.<br> What you think<br> is wrong with you<br> that you finally narrowed all your<br> choices down to the Sunset Limited?<br> I don't think there's<br> anything wrong with me.<br> I think I've just been driven<br> to finally face the truth.<br> If I'm different it<br> doesn't mean I'm crazy.<br> - Different?<br> - Yeah.<br> - Different from who?<br> - Anybody.<br> What about all them other folk out<br> there trying to off themself?<br> - What about 'em?<br> - Well, maybe them's the folk you is like.<br> Maybe they're your natural kin, only<br> y'all don't get together all that much.<br> - I don't think so.<br> - Don't think so?<br> No, I've been in group<br> therapy with those people.<br> I've never found anyone there<br> that I felt any kinship with.<br> Hmm, what about all them professors?<br> There ain't no kinship there?<br> - Good God.<br> - I'll take that as a no.<br> I loathe them<br> and they loathe me.<br> Well, just 'cause<br> you don't like 'em<br> don't mean you ain't like 'em.<br> And what's that word "loathe"?<br> - Loathe.<br> - That a pretty powerful word, ain't it?<br> Not powerful enough,<br> I'm afraid.<br> How come you be loathing<br> these other professors?<br> - I know what you're thinking.<br> - What am I thinking?<br> You're thinking that I loathe<br> them because I'm like them,<br> and I loathe myself.<br> Let me ask you this...<br> Is you on any kind<br> of medication?<br> - No.<br> - There ain't no medication<br> for pilgrims out there<br> waiting to take the Limited?<br> - For suicidal depression?<br> - Yeah.<br> - Yeah, there is. I've tried them.<br> - And what happened?<br> - Nothing happened.<br> - You ain't get no relief?<br> - No. Your coffee's percolated.<br> - Yeah, I know.<br> Does these drugs work<br> for other people?<br> Yes, for most.<br> - But not for you?<br> - Not for me, no.<br> Hmm, what you make of that?<br> I don't know.<br> What am I supposed to make of it?<br> I don't know, professor.<br> I'm just trying to see<br> if we can find you some<br> constituents out here.<br> - Constituents?<br> - Yeah, you like that?<br> Is that a word they<br> use on the streets?<br> No, I learned that word<br> in the jailhouse.<br> You hear things from<br> these jailhouse lawyers<br> and then it gets used around.<br> Be talking about<br> your constituents,<br> some other cat's constituents,<br> your wife's constituents.<br> You take cream and sugar?<br> No, just black.<br> Just black.<br> Why do I have to<br> have constituents?<br> I ain't saying<br> you got to, professor.<br> I'm just wondering<br> if maybe you do<br> and we just ain't looked<br> hard enough for them.<br> They could be out there.<br> There could be some other<br> drug-proof terminal commuters out<br> there could be your friends.<br> - Terminal commuters?<br> - Mm-hmm, you like the sound of that?<br> It's all right.<br> Nobody?<br> - Nobody, no.<br> - Hmm.<br> I'm not a member.<br> Never wanted to be and never was.<br> - Not a member?<br> - No.<br> Look, I could eat a bite.<br> And I think you could too.<br> You break bread with a man,<br> you've moved on to another<br> level of friendship.<br> I heard that's true<br> the world over.<br> Probably.<br> Probably?<br> I like probably.<br> Probably from you is worth<br> a couple of damn rights<br> anywhere else.<br> Why? Because I don't<br> believe in anything?<br> Well, I don't think<br> that's the problem.<br> I think it's what<br> you do believe<br> that's carrying you off,<br> not what you don't.<br> Let me ask you this.<br> Go ahead.<br> You ever think about Jesus?<br> Here we go.<br> Well, do you?<br> What makes you think I'm not Jewish?<br> What, Jews ain't allowed<br> to think about Jesus?<br> No, but they might think<br> about him differently.<br> Oh.<br> Is you Jewish?<br> No, as it happens I'm not.<br> Had me going there<br> for a minute.<br> What, you don't like Jews?<br> I'm just pulling<br> your chain, professor,<br> just pulling your chain.<br> I don't know why<br> I like to mess with you,<br> but I do.<br> Now you need to listen<br> or you need to believe<br> what you're hearing,<br> 'cause the point<br> of where this is going...<br> which you wanted to know...<br> is that there ain't no Jews,<br> there ain't no whites,<br> there ain't no niggers...<br> people of color.<br> There ain't<br> none of that.<br> At the deep bottom of the mine<br> where the gold is at,<br> there ain't none of that.<br> There's just the pure ore,<br> that forever thing<br> that you don't think is there,<br> that thing that keeps people<br> nailed down to the platform<br> when the Sunset Limited<br> is coming through,<br> even if they think<br> they want to get aboard,<br> that thing that allows you<br> to ladle out benediction<br> on the heads of strangers<br> instead of curses.<br> And it's all one thing.<br> And it ain't but one thing,<br> just one.<br> And that would be Jesus.<br> I got to think about<br> how to answer that.<br> Maybe one more heresy<br> won't hurt you.<br> Pretty loaded up<br> on them already.<br> Here's what I would say.<br> I would say...<br> Mm!<br> I would say<br> that thing we're<br> talking about is Jesus,<br> but Jesus as understood<br> as that gold at the<br> bottom of the mine.<br> He could not<br> come down here<br> and assume the shape of a man<br> if that form was not done<br> shaped to accommodate him.<br> And if I said ain't no way<br> for Jesus to be every man<br> without every man being Jesus,<br> well now, I think that would<br> be a pretty big heresy.<br> But that's all right.<br> It ain't as big a heresy<br> as saying like man ain't<br> no different from a rock,<br> which is how I see<br> your point of view.<br> It's not my point of view.<br> I believe in the primacy of the intellect.<br> Mm, and what's that word?<br> Primacy? It means first.<br> It means what you put first.<br> And that would be intellect?<br> Yes.<br> Well, what about the primacy<br> of the Sunset Limited?<br> Yes, that too.<br> But not the primacy of the<br> people waiting on a later train?<br> No, no primacy there.<br> Hmm.<br> You tough, professor.<br> You tough.<br> You see yourself<br> as a questioner.<br> But about that<br> I got my doubts.<br> The quest of your life<br> is your quest.<br> And you're on a road<br> that you laid.<br> And that fact alone might be all the<br> reason you need for sticking to it.<br> As long as you're on that road<br> you can't get lost.<br> I'm not sure I understand<br> what you're saying.<br> Oh, I got my doubts about<br> you not understanding<br> anything I say, professor.<br> I'm fixing to say grace.<br> Lord, we thank you<br> for this food<br> and for the many blessings we<br> have received from your hand.<br> We thank you for the life of the<br> professor which you have returned to us<br> and ask that you would look<br> after him, 'cause we need him.<br> Now I don't know<br> why we need him.<br> I just know we do.<br> Amen.<br> Tell me how you like this.<br> It looks good.<br> This is good.<br> This is very good.<br> Supposed to be good.<br> It's soul food, my man.<br> It's got what in it?<br> Molasses?<br> - Mm, you a chef, professor?<br> - Not really.<br> - But some?<br> - Some, yes.<br> Bananas, of course.<br> Mangos?<br> - Got a mango or two in it, rutabagas.<br> - Rutabagas?<br> Rutabagas.<br> Them's hard to find.<br> It's very good.<br> You know, it gets better<br> after a day or two.<br> I just fixed this last night.<br> You gotta heat it up a few times<br> to get the flavors right.<br> Like chili.<br> Like chili.<br> Yeah, that's right.<br> You know where I<br> learned to fix this?<br> - In Louisiana?<br> - Mm-mm.<br> Right here in the ghettos<br> of New York City.<br> There's a lot of different<br> influences in a dish like this.<br> Many parts of the world<br> in that pot over yonder,<br> a lot of different countries,<br> different people.<br> Any white people?<br> Not if you can help it.<br> Really?<br> I'm just messing<br> with you, professor,<br> just messing with you.<br> You know them chefs<br> in them uptown restaurants?<br> - Not personally, no.<br> - You know what they like to fix?<br> - No.<br> - Sweetbreads...<br> Brains, tripe, all that shit don't<br> nobody like to eat.<br> You know why that is?<br> Because it's a challenge.<br> You have to innovate.<br> You're pretty smart<br> for a honky.<br> That's right.<br> It's a challenge.<br> The stuff they fix...<br> dead cheap.<br> Most folks throw it out,<br> give it to the cat.<br> But poor folks...<br> They don't throw nothing out.<br> I guess that's right.<br> Anybody can make a porterhouse<br> steak taste good.<br> But if you can't buy<br> no porterhouse steak<br> and you still wants to eat something<br> that tastes good, what do you do then?<br> - Innovate.<br> - Innovate. That's right.<br> And who is it<br> that's got to innovate?<br> - Poor people.<br> - That's right. Poor people.<br> You fixing to get an a+.<br> So how you like this?<br> It's very good.<br> You don't think a glass of wine<br> would have been good with this?<br> I do think a glass of wine<br> would have been good with it.<br> But you wouldn't<br> drink it?<br> Oh, I might.<br> Just one glass.<br> Jesus drank wine...<br> he and his disciples.<br> Yes, he did. Says so<br> right here in the Bible.<br> Of course it don't say nothing<br> about him hiding it in the toilet.<br> Is that really a favorite<br> hiding place?<br> Oh yeah.<br> I've known drunks<br> to lift the lids off toilets<br> in strange places<br> just on the off chance.<br> - Is that true?<br> - No.<br> It could be though.<br> Wouldn't surprise me none.<br> What is the worst thing<br> you ever did?<br> - More jailhouse stories?<br> - Why not?<br> Which why not you want to hear?<br> Is bludgeoning the man in the prison<br> cafeteria the worst thing you ever did?<br> No, it ain't.<br> It isn't?<br> What's the worst?<br> - I ain't gonna tell you.<br> - Why not?<br> 'Cause you'll jump up, run<br> out the door hollering.<br> It must be pretty bad.<br> It is. That's why<br> I ain't telling you.<br> - Now I'm afraid to ask.<br> - No, u ain't.<br> Did you ever tell anyone?<br> Yeah.<br> It wouldn't<br> leave me alone.<br> Who did you tell it to?<br> I told it to a man of God<br> who was my friend.<br> - What did he say?<br> - He didn't say a word.<br> But you're not curious about<br> the worst thing I ever did.<br> Yeah, I am.<br> But you won't ask me<br> what it is.<br> - I don't have to.<br> - Why is that?<br> 'Cause I was there.<br> I seen it.<br> Well, I might have<br> a different view.<br> Yeah, you might.<br> You want some more?<br> No, I'm stuffed.<br> Hungrier than you thought?<br> Yes, I was.<br> Good.<br> Is this some kind of<br> test of your faith?<br> - What, you?<br> - Me, yes.<br> It ain't my faith<br> you're testing.<br> You see everything<br> in black and white.<br> It is black and white.<br> I suppose that makes the world<br> easier to understand.<br> You'd be surprised<br> how little time I spend<br> trying to understand the world.<br> You try to understand God.<br> No, I don't.<br> I try to understand<br> what he wants from me.<br> And that's everything you need?<br> If God ain't<br> everything you need,<br> then you in a world of trouble.<br> I don't make a move<br> without Jesus.<br> When I get up in the morning,<br> I try to grab ahold<br> to his belt.<br> Sometime I go into<br> a manual override.<br> I catch myself.<br> - Manual override?<br> - Yeah, you like that?<br> - It's okay.<br> - I thought it was pretty good.<br> So you come to the end<br> of your rope<br> and you admit defeat<br> and you're in despair.<br> And in this state you seize<br> upon this, whatever it is,<br> that has neither sense<br> nor substance,<br> and you grab hold of it<br> and hang on for dear life.<br> Is that a fair portrayal?<br> That might be<br> one way to say it.<br> It doesn't make any sense.<br> Well, I thought when<br> we was talking earlier<br> you was saying that there was none of it<br> made no sense...<br> Talking about the history<br> of the world and some such.<br> Well, it doesn't<br> on a larger scale.<br> But what you're telling me<br> is not a view of things.<br> It's a view of one thing<br> and I find it nonsensical.<br> What would you do<br> if Jesus was to speak to you?<br> Do you imagine that he might?<br> No, I don't.<br> But I don't know.<br> I'm not virtuous enough.<br> No, professor,<br> it ain't nothing like that.<br> You ain't got to be virtuous.<br> You just has to be quiet.<br> Now I can't speak for the lord,<br> but it has been my experience<br> that he will talk to<br> anybody who will listen.<br> You damn sure ain't got<br> to be virtuous.<br> If I heard God talking to me,<br> I would be ready for you<br> to take me up to Bellevue,<br> as you suggested.<br> What if what he said<br> made sense?<br> Wouldn't make any difference.<br> Craziness is craziness.<br> - Don't make no difference if it makes sense?<br> - No.<br> Well, that's about as big a case<br> of the primacy as I ever heard.<br> I've always gone my own way.<br> Ich kann nicht anders.<br> What's that you talking?<br> - It's German.<br> - You talk German?<br> Not really. A little.<br> It's a quotation.<br> Ah well, it didn't do them Germans<br> much good though, did it?<br> I don't know.<br> The Germans contributed<br> a great deal to<br> civilization before Hitler.<br> And then they<br> contributed Hitler.<br> Yeah, if you like.<br> I gather it to be your belief<br> that culture tends to<br> contribute to human misery,<br> that the more one knows, the<br> unhappier one is likely to be.<br> As in the case of certain<br> parties known to us.<br> As in the case.<br> Well, I don't believe<br> I said that.<br> I think maybe it was you<br> who said it.<br> - I never said it.<br> - Do you believe it?<br> - No.<br> - No?<br> I don't know.<br> It could be true.<br> Well, why is that?<br> That don't seem right, do it?<br> It's the first thing<br> in that book there...<br> the Garden of Eden,<br> knowledge as destructive to the<br> spirit, destructive to goodness.<br> I thought I ain't read<br> that book.<br> Everyone knows that story.<br> It's probably the most famous story in there.<br> Hmm, why you think that is?<br> I suppose from the God's point<br> of view all knowledge is vanity.<br> Or maybe it just gives people<br> the unhealthy illusion that<br> they can outwit the devil.<br> Damn, professor.<br> Where was you<br> when I needed you?<br> You'd better be careful.<br> You see where it's gotten me.<br> Oh, I see.<br> That's the topic of discussion here.<br> The darker picture<br> is always the correct one.<br> When you read the history<br> of the world<br> you are reading a saga of<br> bloodshed and greed and folly<br> the import of which<br> is impossible to ignore.<br> And yet we imagine<br> that the future will<br> somehow be different.<br> I've no idea why we are<br> even still here.<br> In all probability we won't<br> be here much longer.<br> Them's some pretty<br> powerful words, professor.<br> That's what's in your<br> heart though, ain't it?<br> Yes.<br> All right, well, I can<br> relate to them thoughts.<br> - You can?<br> - Sure I can.<br> That surprises me.<br> But you could be wrong,<br> you know.<br> I don't think so.<br> That ain't something you have<br> a lot of in your life, is it?<br> - What isn't?<br> - Being wrong.<br> - I admit it when I'm wrong.<br> - Oh, I don't know about that.<br> Well, you're entitled<br> to your own opinion.<br> Oh yeah,<br> here it is.<br> Story on page three.<br> Ah.<br> "Friends reported<br> that the man had<br> ignored all advice<br> and stated that he intended<br> to pursue his own course.<br> A close confidant<br> stated... "<br> and this here<br> is in quotations...<br> "You couldn't tell that<br> son of a bitch nothing."<br> Now can you say that<br> in the paper...<br> "Son of a bitch"?<br> "Blood-spattered spectators<br> at the 155th Street station...<br> continued on page four..."<br> "who were interviewed<br> at the scene said<br> that the man's last words<br> as he hurtled toward the<br> oncoming commuter train were,<br> 'I am right.'"<br> very funny.<br> Oh, professor,<br> you an amazing man.<br> I'm glad you find me<br> entertaining.<br> - Oh, I think you're pretty special.<br> - I don't think I'm special.<br> - You don't?<br> - No, I don't.<br> You don't think you view<br> those other commuters<br> from a certain height?<br> I view those other commuters<br> as fellow occupants<br> of the same abyssal pit<br> in which I find myself.<br> And if they see it<br> as something different,<br> I don't know how that<br> makes me special.<br> Mm.<br> I hear what you're saying.<br> But still I keep coming<br> back to these commuters,<br> them that's waiting<br> on the Sunset.<br> I can't help but think<br> there's got to be something<br> a little special<br> about theirselves.<br> I mean, they got to be<br> in a deeper pit<br> than us day travelers...<br> deeper and darker.<br> I ain't saying they<br> down as deep as you,<br> - but pretty deep maybe.<br> - So?<br> So maybe they your brothers<br> in self-destruction<br> and despair.<br> I thought misery loved company.<br> I'm sure I don't know.<br> Let me take a shot at it.<br> What I think is<br> that you got better<br> reasons than them.<br> See, their reasons is that<br> they just don't like it here,<br> but yours says<br> what it is not to like<br> and why not not to like it.<br> You got more intelligent<br> reasons, more elegant reasons.<br> - You making fun of me?<br> - No, I ain't.<br> - But you think I'm full of shit?<br> - No, I don't think that.<br> But I don't doubt that it's possible<br> to die from being full of shit.<br> But I don't think that's<br> what we're looking at here.<br> What do you think<br> we're looking at?<br> I don't know.<br> You got me in uncharted territory.<br> You got these<br> world-class reasons<br> for taking the Limited<br> where these other dudes...<br> all they got is,<br> well, maybe they just<br> don't feel good.<br> It might could be that you<br> ain't even all that unhappy.<br> You think my education<br> is driving me to suicide?<br> No, I'm just posing<br> the question.<br> Well, wait a minute<br> 'fore you answer.<br> Okay, go ahead.<br> I think that's the most<br> ridiculous thing I ever heard.<br> "I think that's the most<br> ridiculous thing I ever heard."<br> Very clever.<br> What's the point?<br> The light is all around you<br> but you don't see<br> nothing but shadow.<br> And you're the one causing it.<br> It's you.<br> You're the shadow.<br> That's the point.<br> Well, I don't have your faith.<br> Why don't we just<br> leave it at that?<br> You ain't never thought<br> about just starting over?<br> I did at one time.<br> I don't anymore.<br> Well, maybe faith<br> is just a case<br> of not having<br> nothing else left.<br> Well, I do have something else.<br> Well, why don't you just<br> keep that in reserve?<br> Just take a shot<br> at starting over.<br> I don't mean starting again.<br> Everybody's done that.<br> Over means over.<br> Just walk away.<br> I mean, if everything you are<br> and everything you have<br> and everything you done<br> has brought you at last to the<br> bottom of a whisky bottle<br> or bought you a one-way<br> ticket on the Sunset Limited,<br> you can't give me one good<br> reason on God's green earth<br> for salvaging none of it,<br> 'cause there ain't none.<br> If you can bring yourself<br> to close the door<br> on all of that,<br> it will be cold<br> and it will be lonely<br> and there will be<br> a fierce wind blowing.<br> But you don't say nothing.<br> You just turn your collar up<br> and keep walking.<br> I can't.<br> I can't.<br> You want some more coffee?<br> No, thank you.<br> Why do you think it is<br> folks take their own life?<br> I don't know.<br> Different reasons.<br> Is there anything these different<br> reasons has got in common?<br> I can't speak for others.<br> My own reasons center around<br> a gradual loss<br> of make-believe,<br> a gradual enlightenment<br> as to the nature<br> of reality, of the world.<br> - Them worldly reasons.<br> - If you like.<br> - Them elegant reasons.<br> - That was your description.<br> You ain't disagreed<br> with it.<br> It's them reasons that your<br> brother don't know nothing about<br> hanging from his necktie from a<br> steampipe down in the basement.<br> He's got his own<br> dumbass reasons.<br> But if we could find a way<br> to educate him<br> to them more elegant reasons<br> and make them available<br> to him and his buddies,<br> then there'd be a lot<br> of folk out there<br> could off themselves with more joy<br> in their hearts. What you think?<br> Now I know<br> you're being facetious.<br> I think you're right.<br> I think you done finally drove me to it.<br> Mm-hmm.<br> Professor done gone<br> to laying mm-hmms on me.<br> I guess I'd better<br> watch my step.<br> You better had.<br> I might be warming up the trick bag.<br> You think your reasons<br> is about the world,<br> and his is mostly about him.<br> I think that's probably true.<br> I think I see a different truth<br> sitting across the table from me.<br> Which is?<br> That you must<br> love your brother or die.<br> I don't know what that means.<br> It's another world<br> from anything I know.<br> Well, well, tell me<br> how your world is.<br> You don't want to hr it.<br> - Sure I do.<br> - I don't think so.<br> Yeah, go ahead.<br> All right.<br> It's that the world is<br> basically a forced labor camp<br> from which the workers,<br> perfectly innocent,<br> are led forth by lottery,<br> a few each day,<br> to be executed.<br> I don't think that's<br> just the way I see it.<br> I think that's the way it is.<br> Are there alternative<br> views? Yes.<br> Will any of them<br> stand close scrutiny?<br> No.<br> So do you want to take a look<br> at that train schedule again?<br> If this ain't the life<br> you wanted, what was?<br> I don't know.<br> Not this.<br> Are you living the life<br> you had planned?<br> No, it ain't.<br> But I got what I needed<br> instead of what I wanted.<br> Sometimes that's the best<br> kind of luck to have.<br> Yeah, well...<br> You can't compare your life<br> to mine though, can you?<br> No, I can't.<br> ( Chuckles<br> I just can't.<br> Oh, I'm sorry.<br> I should go.<br> - You don't have to go.<br> - I've offended you.<br> Look, my hide is<br> thicker than that.<br> Don't go.<br> You ain't hurt my feelings.<br> I know you think I should be thankful.<br> I'm sorry not to be.<br> - I don't think no such thing.<br> - I should go.<br> I'm digging a dry hole<br> here, ain't I?<br> I admire your persistence.<br> What can I do to get you<br> to just stay just a bit?<br> Why? Are you hoping that<br> if I stay long enough, God might talk to me?<br> No, I'm hoping<br> he'll speak to me.<br> I know you think I at least owe<br> you a little more of my time.<br> I know I'm ungrateful.<br> But ingratitude is not the sin<br> to a spiritual bankrupt<br> that it is to a man of God.<br> I don't think you owe me<br> nothing, professor.<br> - You really think that?<br> - Yeah, I do.<br> Well, you're very kind.<br> And I wish there was something I could do<br> to repay you, but there isn't.<br> So why don't we just say goodbye?<br> You can get on with your life.<br> Suppose...<br> Suppose I have to tell you<br> you could wake up tomorrow<br> and you wouldn't want to be<br> jumping in front of no train.<br> Suppose all you had to do was ask.<br> Would you do it?<br> That just depends on what<br> I would have to give up.<br> See, I started to write that<br> down on a piece of paper.<br> What is it you think<br> I'm holding on to?<br> I don't know!<br> What is it the terminal<br> commuter cherishes<br> - that he would die for?<br> - I don't know.<br> No no.<br> You don't.<br> You don't want to talk<br> to me no more, do you?<br> I thought you had a thick skin.<br> It is, but it ain't<br> hide to the bone.<br> Why do you think there is<br> something that I won't give up?<br> I don't know.<br> I think<br> any man anxious to get<br> run over by a train<br> has got to have<br> something on his mind.<br> I mean most of us<br> would just settle<br> for maybe a slap<br> upside the head.<br> You say you don't<br> care about nothing,<br> but I don't believe that.<br> I don't think death<br> is ever about nothing.<br> You asked me what I think<br> you're holding on to<br> and I got to say I don't know.<br> Or maybe I just don't<br> have the words to say it.<br> And maybe you know<br> but you just ain't telling.<br> What I believe is<br> that when you took<br> your celebrated leap,<br> you was taking it with you<br> and you was holding on to it,<br> holding on for grim death.<br> I'm just looking for<br> the words, professor.<br> I'm looking for the words<br> 'cause I know the words<br> is just the way to your heart.<br> Well, I can't help you.<br> Letting it all go<br> is the place I finally got to.<br> It took a lot of work to get there.<br> And if there's one thing<br> I would be unwilling to give<br> up, it is exactly that.<br> Is there another way<br> you could say that?<br> The one thing I won't give up<br> is giving up.<br> I expect that<br> to carry me through.<br> I'm depending on it.<br> The things I believe in<br> were very frail, as I've said.<br> They won't be around very<br> long and neither will I.<br> But I don't think that's really<br> the reason for my decision.<br> I think it goes<br> deeper than that.<br> You can acclimate<br> yourself to loss.<br> You have to.<br> I mean...<br> You like music, right?<br> Yeah yeah, I do.<br> Who is the greatest composer<br> that you know of?<br> John Coltrane, hands down.<br> Do you think his work<br> will last forever?<br> Well,<br> forever's a long time,<br> professor.<br> So I got to say no.<br> That doesn't mean<br> it's worthless, does it?<br> No, it don't.<br> You give up the world<br> line by line.<br> You become an accomplice<br> to your own annihilation.<br> There's nothing<br> you can do about it.<br> Everything you do closes a<br> door somewhere ahead of you.<br> Finally there's<br> only one door left.<br> That's a dark world, professor.<br> Maybe you just need to admit<br> that you're in over your head.<br> I do admit it, but that<br> don't let me off the hook.<br> I got no choice.<br> Okay.<br> Maybe you're right.<br> Well, here is my news,<br> reverend.<br> I long for the darkness.<br> I pray for death, real death.<br> And if I thought that in death I would<br> meet the people I knew in life,<br> I don't know what I would do.<br> That would be the ultimate horror,<br> the ultimate nightmare.<br> If I thought I was gonna<br> meet my mother again and<br> start all of that all over,<br> only this time without the prospect<br> of death to look forward to,<br> that would be<br> the final nightmare,<br> Kafka on wheels.<br> Damn, professor.<br> You don't want to see your own mama?<br> No, I don't.<br> I want the dead to be dead<br> forever.<br> And I want to be<br> one of them.<br> Except of course you can't be one of them.<br> You can't be one of the dead<br> because that which has no<br> existence can have no community.<br> No community.<br> My heart warms<br> just thinking about it...<br> blackness, aloneness,<br> silence, peace,<br> and all of it<br> only a heartbeat away.<br> I don't regard my state of mind<br> as some pessimistic<br> view of the world.<br> I regard it as the world itself.<br> Evolution cannot avoid<br> bringing intelligent life<br> ultimately to an awareness<br> of one thing,<br> and one thing above all else.<br> And that one thing is futility.<br> If I'm understanding you<br> right, you're saying<br> everybody that just ain't<br> eat up with the dumbass<br> ought to be suicidal.<br> - Yes.<br> - You ain't shitting me?<br> No, I am not shitting you.<br> If people could see the<br> world for what it truly is,<br> see their lives<br> for what they truly are,<br> without dreams or illusions,<br> I don't believe they could<br> offer the first reason<br> why they should not elect<br> to die as soon as possible.<br> I don't believe in God.<br> Can you understand that?<br> Look around you, man.<br> Can't you see?<br> The clamor and din<br> of those in torment<br> has to be the sound<br> most pleasing to his ear.<br> And I loathe<br> these discussions...<br> The argument<br> of the village atheist<br> whose single passion<br> is to revile endlessly<br> that which he denies the<br> existence of in the first place.<br> Your fellowship<br> is a fellowship of pain<br> and nothing more.<br> And if that pain<br> were collective<br> instead of merely reiterative,<br> the sheer weight of it<br> would drag the world<br> from the walls of the universe<br> and send it crashing<br> and burning down<br> through whatever night it might<br> yet be capable of engendering<br> until it was not even ash.<br> And brotherhood,<br> justice, eternal life?<br> Good God, man.<br> Show me a religion<br> that prepares one<br> for nothingness, for death.<br> That's a church I might enter.<br> Yours prepares one<br> only for more life,<br> for dreams and illusions<br> and lies.<br> Banish the fear of death<br> from men's hearts...<br> They wouldn't live a day.<br> Who would want this nightmare<br> but for fear of the next?<br> The shadow of the axe<br> hangs over every joy.<br> Every road ends in death,<br> every friendship, every love.<br> Torment, loss,<br> betrayal,<br> pain, suffering,<br> age,<br> indignity,<br> hideous lingering illness...<br> and all of it<br> with a single conclusion<br> for you<br> and every one and every thing<br> you have ever chosen<br> to care for.<br> That is the true brotherhood,<br> the true fellowship.<br> And everybody is<br> a member for life.<br> You tell me that my<br> brother is my salvation?<br> My salvation?<br> Well, then damn him.<br> Damn him in every shape<br> and guise and form.<br> Do I see myself in him?<br> Yes, I do.<br> And what I see sickens me.<br> Do you understand me?<br> Can you understand me?<br> I'm sorry.<br> How long you felt like this?<br> All my life.<br> - Is that true?<br> - It's worse than that.<br> I don't see what could be<br> worse than that.<br> Rage is really only<br> for the good days.<br> The truth is there's<br> little of that left.<br> The truth is<br> that the forms I see<br> have been slowly emptied out.<br> They no longer have<br> any content.<br> They're shapes only...<br> a train, a wall,<br> a world, a man...<br> a thing dangling<br> in senseless articulation<br> in a howling void,<br> no meaning to its life,<br> its words.<br> Why would I seek out<br> the company of such a thing?<br> Why?<br> Damn.<br> So you see what it is<br> you've saved?<br> Tried to save.<br> Still trying, trying hard.<br> - Who is your brother?<br> - Who is my brother, yes.<br> Is that the reason I'm here<br> in your apartment?<br> No, that's why I'm here.<br> You asked me<br> what I'm a professor of.<br> I am a professor of darkness,<br> the night in day's clothing.<br> And now I wish you all<br> the very best,<br> but I must go.<br> Just stay<br> a little while longer.<br> No, no more time.<br> Goodbye.<br> We can talk about<br> something else, I swear.<br> I don't want to talk<br> about something else.<br> Don't go out there, professor!<br> You know what's out there!<br> Oh yes.<br> Indeed I do.<br> I know what's out there<br> and I know who is out there.<br> I rush to nuzzle<br> his bony cheek.<br> No doubt he will be surprised<br> to find himself so cherished.<br> And as I cling to his neck<br> I will whisper in that<br> dry and ancient ear,<br> "Here I am.<br> Here I am."<br> - Now open the door!<br> - Don't do this.<br> You're a kind man.<br> I've heard you out<br> and you've heard me.<br> There's no more to say.<br> Your God must once have stood<br> at a dawn of infinite<br> possibilities,<br> and that is what<br> he's made of it.<br> You tell me that I want<br> God's love. I don't.<br> Perhaps I want forgiveness,<br> but there is no one to ask it of.<br> And there's no going back.<br> There's no setting things right.<br> There's only the hope<br> of nothingness.<br> And I cling to that hope.<br> - Now open the door.<br> - Don't do this.<br> Please open the door.<br> Thank you.<br> Goodbye.<br> Professor,<br> I know you ain't mean<br> them words.<br> I'm gonna be there<br> in the morning.<br> I'm gonna be there, you hear?<br> I'm gonna be there!<br> I'm gonna be there.<br> You know he didn't mean<br> them words.<br> You know he didn't.<br> You know he didn't.<br> I don't understand why<br> you sent me down there.<br> I don't understand.<br> If you wanted me to help him, then how<br> come you didn't give me the words?<br> You give them to him.<br> What about me?<br> That's all right.<br> That's all right.<br> If you don't never speak again,<br> you know I'll keep your word.<br> You know I will.<br> You know I'm good for it.<br> Is that okay?<br> Is that okay?<br>
</div>



